- [Instructor] A big part of the Spring 5.0 improvements
come around the testing,
specifically around the utilization of JUnit 5 Jupiter.
With Spring 5,
the JUnit 5 or JUnit Jupiter
brings both programming and extension models,
and we get all of that support within Spring Test context.
The @RunWith annotation is no longer really supported.
Instead we're now going with the @ExtendsWith annotation.
And as such, there is a new class.
Instead of the JUnit 4 runner,
there is now a SpringExtension.class.
Now, this provides full support for TestContext
and all of its previous feature set.
We've also had several annotations that were added
to make your life just a little bit easier.
The first is the SpringJUnitConfig,
and really this is just a composition of two annotations,
the @ExtendWith for SpringExtension class,
and that's the Jupiter component,
and the @ContextConfiguration,
and that was the Spring component
that allowed you to specify your application context
that you wanted to be loaded
during the running of your JUnit test.
Now, this gives us the ability to configure
the application context within JUnit
and let it all be run with the ExtendWith
SpringExtension class.
So we get all of that with just one simple annotation.
And it gets a little bit better in the web role,
where now we have a composition of three parts.
So we get both of the parts from SpringJUnitConfig
that we just solved.
In addition, we get the WebApplicationContext annotation.
Now, this provides a servlet context to our tests,
which can be very valuable
when you're doing integration tests
of the full stack of your application
within the confines of a JUnit running locally.
This is really powerful in these integration tests
where we don't want to reach out to a remote server.
We want to run it all locally
with the proper servlet context.
We also get the addition
of conditional running of our tests,
and the benefit here is that we can use
the all-familiar Spring Expression Language to do our work.
So we get two annotations here,
EnabledIf and DisabledIf,
and you can see what those are for just by the names.
The conditionals there can be anything,
including in Spring Expression Language,
which allows us to look at properties
and other values within the ecosystem
and determine if we should run the test or not.
Things like profiles are really powerful here.
Now, this can be applied at a method level
or at a class level,
so if we have an entire class
that we don't want to run if we're on a Mac,
for instance, we can do that.
Or an entire class that we want to run
if we're in this condition,
or just an individual test,
that conditional running becomes very powerful
in those situations.